python was introduced by Guido van Rossum in the year 1991.
the latest version stable release is 3.8
Features
------------
1. Simple -- less stress on clarity about the programming structure.it is Just like reading english statements. Easy
2. Easy to learn -- The elegant style of coding makes easy to learn even complex applications. it has very less keywords
3. Open source -- no need to pay for python. it is freely available
4. High level language -- as it supports oops feature.
5. Dynamically Typed--- we need not to declare anything as everything is already predefinely declared.
                        An assignment statements binds to an object of particular type can be changed to another
                        changing the value only.
6. platform independent-- when a code is written in windows system is also same in mac or linux.
7. Portable - when a programming language gives same output in different environments it becomes Portable.
                Once a code is written , it can run in any platform and executed by 
                PVM(Python virtual machine)
8. Procedural as well as object Oriented --- python supports structured oriented programming 
                                            style that, programs are developed using functions and procedures.
                                            In case OOP use of classes and objects.

9. Interpreted -- Each program is executed line by line. It is the job of PVM to reach on every line to execute.
10. Extensible - python can communicate with other programming languages like C, java, C++.
                The programs written in other programming labguages can be integrated into python.
11. Embeddable -- we can also use python into other programming languages.
12. Huge Library --- python has a huge Library for different operating systems as programmers can develop 
                    applications using specific library.
13. Scripting Language-- python script 
14. Database Connectivity -- python can be used for Connectivity with any Database available in the world.
15. Scalable ---- it can be moved from one source to mutiple destinations.

KEYWORDS
---------
and
as
assert
break
class
continue
def
del 
else 
elif
except
exec
finally
for
from 
global
in
is
import
if
lambda
nonlocal
not
None
False
True
or
pass
print
raise
return
try
while
with
yield

Comments
------------
3 types of comments used in python
single line comments
multiline comments or docstrings
docstrings (it ocuupies memory but it doesn't get executed)


In case of python each module present in it's library has a specific purpose.
for a specific need specific modules are used for developemnt of application.

SETUP
-------
Before wrtting programs or developing softwares python needs an environment to be activated.

to install the environment the command is
"pip install module_name"

what is PIP?
pip stands for python installed package which installs modules or libraries present inside python library.
pip in nothing but a software which is used to install the specific module.


command
--------
1. virtualenv xyz(anyspecific name)
if the first command doesn't work then we can also try,
2. py3 -m virtualenv env(any specific name) 


to activate the virtual environment in system we have to pass the command
steps
----------
1. open the desired folder
2. on the address bar type cmd and hit enter to open command prompt.
**suppose the folder name is --- python class and the desired environment name is 'env'
3. inside folder 'python class' open the cmd then type
the following command
'E:\python class\env\Scripts\activate'
4. now the environment gets activated.

activate command present inside 'Scripts' folder is used to activate the environment.

how to download and install python in windows?
--------------------------------------------------
1. open browser and search www.python.org
for 64 bit go to downloads section and find 'Download Windows x86-64 executable installer'
2. download the file and then click it for installation.
3. add to path(click tick)
4. on another prompt it will ask to click [install for all users][tick on there.]

how to check whether python is installed or not?
-----> on command prompt type "python" then hit enter, then the python console will open

open an account on www.github.com

datatype
-------------
None
Numeric
sequence
set 
Mappings
None
